Hello everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Decent. I'm your host, Ricardo Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Susan Golden Meadow. She is the
Beardsley Rummel distinguished service professor in the Department of
Psychology and Committee on Human Development at the University
of Chicago. She has made pioneering contributions to the
study of how language is created and learned and
how the gestures that go along with speech, facilitate
learning and communication. And today, we're focusing on her
book Thinking with your hands, the surprising science behind
our gesture shape our thought. So Doctor Golden Meadow,
welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to everyone.
Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be
here.
So, just to introduce the topic and your book
here, what is the premise of your book? And
why are you interested in gestures?
So, I, that's a little bit of a long
story. I'm interested in gesture. Um Because of where
I began, I was interested in where language comes
from. Uh And whether it is there is something
about language that we ourselves contribute to or whether
language is just handed down from generation to generation
to generation. So if language disappeared. And if it's
handed down from generation to generation to generation, it,
it might not return and it might not return
in the same way. But if language disappeared and
we contribute to language learning, then um it might
not only re return but return in the same
way. So I wanted to study that question. It's
not an easy question to study, but I wanted
to study it. And so the people I looked
at were deaf Children of hearing parents, so they
couldn't acquire spoken language and they were not exposed
to a sign language. And I found that they
started to use their hands to communicate. So I
spent many years, my first years of my career
studying these Children to try to figure out whether
what they did with their hands could be called
language. And from there, I got interested in how
all people use their hands, whether or not they're
creating their language or learning their language.
But is it that these uh Children started using
their hands? I mean, through their own initiative spontaneously
or was it through some sort of uh instruction?
No, they weren't instructed at all. The instruction they
were getting was in spoken language or their parents
are hearing and their parents really wanted them to
learn how to speak so that they were given
instruction in speech by their parents. Um AND by
the schools that they went to oral schools, but
in fact what they ended up communicating with was
their hands.
A and so, uh, we'll get more into that
later on in our conversation. But just to take
a small step back, what can we communicate through
gesture? Exactly.
Well, I don't think. Ok, so gesture can be
made into a language that's the deaf kids do.
But for the most part, when we gesture, we're
using our gestures to, um, sort of shade our
language. Um, WE can just add nuance to our
language or we can add ideas that aren't conveyed
in our language at all. So it, it depends,
it can contribute quite a lot. Um And whether
or not you pay attention to it, you know,
it depends on the listener. Most people do pay
attention to it.
But here, when we talk about gestures, there are
other, some other nonhuman animals that use gestures, right?
Are you interested in those as well or just
in humans?
Well, I think that it's an interesting question as
to whether or not other uh nonhuman animals use
gesture. Um They do whether they're the same, whether
they're used in the same way. I'm actually collaborating
with some people who study in nonhuman primates to
figure out whether these animals use gesture, whether the
forms of their gestures look the same as hearing
people's forms, whether the meanings look the same, mostly
what nonhuman primates do is use gesture to make
requests to ask for things, you know, to ask
to be tickled to ask, you know, be chased
or whatever. Um Whereas at least the deaf Children
that I'm studying use gestures to just talk, you
know, just not to talk, to communicate, to just
convey ideas to schmooze to uh have a conversation.
Um And that's a little different from nonhuman primates.
And is there also differences in terms of, uh
I mean, I guess that you've already ended up
mentioning that there, but are there big differences in
terms of the kinds of gestures? Perhaps not really?
Uh I'm not referring exactly to their meaning but
to the kinds of gestures that we tend to
use and the gestures that other nonhuman animals use.
Yeah, ours are much more elaborate than they just,
I mean, you know, they don't do things like
that. Um They um I am beginning to study
with uh Kat Hoer who studies not human primates.
Um The forms that these uh creatures make um
And whether they look like the forms of the
gestures, I mean, they have different hands, you know,
so they're not going to be identical, they have
different bodies, they have different. Um But we wanted
to see just how comparable they would be in
the situations in which they use these gestures. So
we're beginning to look at that.
So I guess that an interesting question here to
ask is why do we gesture at all? And
by we, I mean, humans, why do we gesture
at all when we are ready have language. I
mean, is it that gestures add something to language?
What are the functions of gestures?
Exactly. Well, that, that's a great question. Um, NO,
we know that one of the things gesture does
is it does communicate information to listeners, but it
does much more than that because if you're blind,
you will gesture. If you have never ever, ever
seen anybody gesture nonetheless, you will move your hands
when you talk, which feels like it's pretty robust
and pretty res resilient and tied to language in
some way. So I think a gesture has a
function both for the speaker and also for the
listener. Um It does lots of good things for
the speaker. It organizes thoughts and you know, it
helps you attend, it helps you remember, helps you
uh keep things online. Um BUT it also does
many good things for listeners as well.
And I guess that in the case of people
who are blind and use gestures in that specific
case, it is very evident that they are at
least also using them for themselves because they cannot
see exactly what they are conveying to other people.
And we've even looked at deaf, blind Children or
blind adolescents talking to other blind uh speakers and
they gesture. So they know they can't be for
their and they know they're talking to a blind
person so they can't be thinking, oh, well, they
could be looking at me. It's not, you know,
really feels like. So when we gesture on the
phone, which everybody does you think? Well, ok, gestures
are, are um not for the listener, but sometimes
that's just habit, you know, you, you just do
it. Um WHEREAS for the blind, it feels more
impressive.
But, but so for the person who's talking or
gesturing, what kinds of cognitive effects can it have
uh when it comes to themselves? I mean, do,
does it have any cognitive benefits uh to gesture?
Sure. I mean, we found that it does um
actually lower your cognitive load. So you can remember
more if you gesture, um it will re uh
help you retain the information that you have expressed
if you express it, not only in speech but
also in gesture, um it will guide your own
attention um if you will look in particular places.
So it really does have cognitive and we're, we're
trying to look more at cognitive effects, that gesture
has both. Why do we do it? What are
the cognitive skills that we need to gesture? And
once having gestured, what effect does it have on
our cognition?
And what kinds of uh let's say additional or
different information can other people get from our gestures?
Uh I mean, beyond what we say.
So I think in the past, most and most
people still, I think, think about gesture as conveying
attitude um and emotion, you know that it, it
just, it gives you away in the sense that
it, it expresses how you feel about yourself, about
the other, about the content. But what I've been
focusing on is not just how you feel about
the conversation, but the con com its contribution to
the conversation itself. Um So substantive information that gets
conveyed in gesture that might not be conveyed in
your speech.
And so, uh I mean, because we are using
parts of our bodies, I guess that most of
the part of our hands but also other parts
of our bodies. Does it connect in any way?
Or I mean, does your work on gestures connect
in any way to embodied cognition? Is that a
framework that you also bring into your work?
So yes, I do think that the fact that
gestures use the body is important. I have done
some work comparing if you gesture, you talk about
a math problem and you gesture, pointing to the
numbers um as opposed to moving the numbers around,
literally taking plastic numbers and moving them around. So
in action, which is also embodied, what you find
is that the effects of gesture are different from
the effects of action. So both of them can
help you learn. But what gesture does is it
helps you generalize that knowledge and extend it not
only this problem here but to other problems that
are like it. Um And action is much more
limited in that sense, it ties you down and
both are embodied. So what I'm really saying is
that gesture, yes, is embodied and that's important, but
it's not the whole story.
Mhm. So let's talk a little bit more about
the learning aspect here. So how do speakers use
gestures when learning a new concept, for example?
Um Well, it depends, um I think what can
happen in a classroom is they may express their
understanding of the problem and then even slightly different
level of understanding with their gestures. So once having
done that, if the teacher can pick up on
that, she might teach to that, he might teach
to that understanding, that implicit understanding and then the
child can learn more from having gotten that input.
Another way to do it is just when the
kids gesture, I think that improves their understanding, gesturing
itself makes them think differently.
Uh So, and can learners also express ideas about
concepts in their gestures that cannot be found in
their speech.
Yes, definitely. Um It could be found. It's not
that it, they're un they're not expressible. It's just
that that person doesn't have articulated knowledge of the
concept. So I can give you an idea, an
example from a study that we've done of Children
learning about number. So, um this is a task
that I took from Jean Piaget. So he had,
he gave Children two rows of checkers, asked the
Children if there was the same number of checkers
in one row and the other. They said yes,
of course, you spread out one row of checkers.
And then he asked the Children, is that, that
the same number of checkers in both rows? And
some kids who are non conservers at a certain
age say no, it's a different number. Uh, SO
that's what we've studied. We've lifted kids who say
no, they all say no, but some kids say
no. And they, uh, when you ask them why
they express the same information in their gestures and
their speech. So they'll say it's different because you
move them and they'll show the moving with their
gestures. Other kids will say it's different because you
moved them and they'll pair up the gestures in
the two rows with their hands. That's not how
you moved it. In fact, it's a pretty clever
thing to have done because what it does is
it shows if you follow that through that there
are the same number of checks in one row
and the other row. So, and it turns out
that the Children who produce those different gestures from
their speech are the ones who are more likely
to learn than the other Children. So that's a
case where they saying something. They're talking about sort
of how the gestures can pair up in their
gestures in their hands. I'm sorry, how the checkers
can pair up um in their hands, but how
the, the checkers were moved in their mouths.
Could you give us just to illustrate what we're
talking about here. Another example. But now about how
Children, Children or other older students can uh learn
through gestures in the classroom specifically.
Well, I think what we have done in experiments
is we've told to gesture in a particular way
and when you do that, um they learn, then
they're more likely to learn than if you don't
tell them to gesture. Uh And in those studies,
what we did was it gave them particular gestures
to do. But we've also done today. So we
tell the kids, ok, next time you do this,
move your hands and they do that and they're
more likely to learn. So even if we don't
tell them exactly what gestures to make, they're still
more likely to take advantage of the instruction that
they're getting.
Mhm.
So it helped
a and do we have any idea about what
are the specific, let's say cognitive mechanisms operating there?
I mean, is it that the gestures themselves play
a role in the learning or is it that
by gesturing, they are perhaps paying more attention to
what they're learning?
Well, those are not as different as I would
as I think, you mean, I mean, I think
that what the gestures could do is just reflect
what they know and somebody else can respond back
to them. And that's one way in which they
can play a role in learning. But the other
way is that they could actually change the way
the child is thinking. I think we have some
evidence that that's true, but we still don't know
how it's changing the way the child or the
learner. I don't think this is about Children. I
think this is about people. So you too will
just might help you learn so gesture it's good
for you. Um But we don't exactly know what
it's doing. We're trying to do some uh brain
analysis and studies of, of scanning the brain when
you're gesturing and to see if we can figure
out exactly what gesture is doing. It may be
helping you abstract, it may help be helping you
pull away from the concrete details and helping you
move, move out away from the particular and therefore
generalize better.
Mhm And so on the other hand, we, we've
been talking about learning, but on the other hand,
can gestures we use have a detrimental effect on
us and others if they convey, for example, incorrect
information, I mean, can they hinder our learning?
Well, it's certainly they can hinder our learning. We've
created studies where, you know, we we make people
pick up gestures that don't help. They actually get
in the way. I think what gestures are is
powerful so that we have an example of a
teacher inadvertently pointing out um all of the numbers
in the problem, but he didn't really mean to
and what the child did after that was add
up all of the numbers in the problem. He
just got waylaid by the, the person's gestures. I
think gestures are really powerful. Um And given that
they are powerful, um they will affect you for
good if they're moving in a good direction and
they can affect you for bad if they're, if
they're gonna take you in a bad direction.
And uh I mean, earlier, I've asked you whether
gestures add additional information to what we're saying, what,
what we're talking about. But uh then do the
nonverbal aspects of communication influence how, how observers interpret
what someone is saying.
I think they definitely do, but we don't always
realize it. In fact, when we were first studying
these gestures, we would write down, you know what
the kid, what we thought the kid was saying
uh and the and gesturing and then we decided,
OK, maybe we should separate these and write down
what the kid is saying. Look, listening only to
speech and then write down what the kid is
gesturing, looking only at gestures. And when we did
that, that's when we discovered there was different information.
I think when you listen and you look, you
integrate instantly, you just convict you put that information
together in your mind and you don't remember where
the information came from. So we're very good at
taking in, in gestural information and I think it's
hard not to use it.
No. Yeah, go ahead. Sorry.
Well, I was going to say, there's one of
my students, Angela Chandran is now looking at gestures
in social evaluative situations um where she asked people
to evaluate groups that are, you know, either popular
or not popular, competent or not competent, whatever. And
so she found that occasionally what people will do
is say one thing but gesture, something quite different.
So they'll say, uh men and women are equally
good learners or equally good leaders, leaders, you know,
and they'll say, well, men um are just, are
women are just as good learners as men and
they'll set them up where women, they'll start talking
about uh women and place their hand low down
in their face. When they talk about men, they'll
place their, their hand up near their forehead. So
that by situating these two groups on this vertical
plane in different places, they're not talking about equality,
not with their hands, they're talking about equality with
their words, but not with their hands. And that
is gonna influence the listener. We're doing some studies
now to see if it does influence the listener
and it does. Uh
uh SO, uh with that example in mind, does
that reveal any sort of unconscious biases on the
part of the speaker or the gesture?
I think it does. And I think they might
be very unconscious. That is, I'm not sure that
the speaker even knows that he or she did
that, you know, they may really think I believe
in the equality of leadership in males and females.
But by putting your gestures in that way, you
don't totally believe it. But I'm not sure that
they're, um, trying to hide it. I think they
don't know it.
So it might not be done intentionally.
I don't think any of these OK, there are
gestures that are done intentionally if I put my
thumb up and I say it's great or if
I do an OK thing, those are intentional gestures.
All these other ones are not, we just move
our hands. And I don't think that we really
think hard about how we're gesturing. Um And it
may be important that we don't think hard about
our gesturing, that it just comes out and that
it's its naturalness and implicitness that is part of
why it's powerful
but can people use their gestures to influence others
and how they interpret what they're saying?
You mean do it explicitly and intentionally? Uh Yes,
I'm sure you can absolutely, you know, I mean,
politicians try to, they're very bad at it because
they're not very good at gesturing. You'd have to
be a skilled gesture, I think to use your
gestures. OK. Here's an example. Um uh Amanda Gorman
who gave that wonderful speech at Biden's inauguration. Um
She used her hands beautifully and she used them,
she was, she was very intentional, I think about
her gestures because they were used almost as a
choreography. They were just choreographed movements that went along
with her, her uh words. But I think she
thought about them before. I don't know that, but
I think she thought about them beforehand and actually
use them to further elaborate and bring to mind
images, storytellers do that too. When they tell stories,
they use their gestures to sort of make it
more alive and to convey nuances that they don't
convey with their hands. That was the
Yeah, I, I was asking you that because I
was just thinking that if uh gestures can influence
how other people interpret what we are saying and
the kinds of information they get from w what
we are communicating. Perhaps if someone was aware of
that and they wanted to actually manipulate people, perhaps
they could add that to what, what they're communicating
verbally.
Yeah, they could, you know, I think, uh but
what I'm saying back is that you'd have to
be skilled to do it. OK? Because it's not
trivial to me. I mean, I do think that's
what politicians try to do but they're not good
at it. And most of them look sort of
silly. Um And you can see what, when their
gestures don't match their speech and when they're trying
to, you know, it just doesn't look so great.
So I think you could um you know, influence
people by gesturing in a particular way, but to
make it look natural so that people wouldn't necessarily
pick up on it, you'd have to be good.
Right. So, yeah, so le let's get back to,
uh, deaf Children and, and how they use home
sign. So, uh, first of all, how do you
study home sign? How do you go about it?
And is it something that Children who they just
invent themselves or how does it work? Exactly.
So, the way we have studied it is, um,
just by going into children's home when they're little.
Um AND you know, asking the parents if we
can videotape the kid and just put down a
bunch of toys and let the kid play with
the parent or with one of us and we
videotaped the child and you know, the kid does
what every kid does sort of play with the
toys and talk about their gesture about the toys.
So in this case, now whether every single deaf
child will do that, I don't know, I don't
think it matters at some level, the fact that
any deaf child can do that given very little.
It, it no sign language input is, is sort
of the point that I wanted to make. Uh
IT is doable. It's possible we can as Children
uh construct at least the fundamental aspects of language,
even if we haven't experienced it.
Mhm A and, but these home signs that uh
deaf Children or some deaf Children use, do they
have similarities to language in terms of, for example,
the semantics and the structure of the language or
not.
Right. So I think in both ways when they're
little kids, they gesture about the same things that
hearing kids talk about when they're learning spoken language
and deaf kids sign about when they're learning sign
language. So, you know, it's what they're about. So
they, they, that's the content of their com communications,
but they also have very simple structural rules as
well. So their uh gestures are in a particular
order. If they want to talk about an object
that's being acted upon, they'll point or indicate that
object before they do the gesture for the action.
Um If they want to say that something is
being moved to a place, they'll do the action
for the moving and then they'll indicate the place.
Um And that tends to be true in all
of the Children we've looked at and in Children
in different cultures. So we've looked at kids in
America and we've looked at kids in Turkey and
we've looked at kids in China. Um AND they
all use the same structures, which is interesting. Yeah.
A a and so the syntactic structure there is
object and then verb instead of verb plus object,
right?
Yeah.
A a as we actually find in some spoken
languages like Japanese, I guess the, the object comes
before the, the verb and
as in Turkish, Turkish is one but the Turkish
kids are no better at it than uh West
kids. It's in OK. So here's here's a AAA
fact that you might know if we tell people,
adult people who use Turkish and Chinese and Spanish
and English to um just be quiet and create
gestures. OK? They will invent gestures, strings that have
the object in front of the verb, even if
they're English speakers, even if they're Spanish speakers. So
when you ask them to describe it in English,
they'll put the verb in front of the object.
Of course, because that we say I eat the
apple or I beat the drum. But when they
describe it in gestures, they'll indicate the drum first
and then do beating will indicate the apple first
and then do eating and all of the groups
are the same.
So do you think that studying gestures can also
tell us something about the, how language works? I
mean, spoke, how spoken language works and perhaps the
how the cognitive apparatus behind language uh processes information.
So OK, that's a question that I'm, I have
studied less, I'm much more interested in the developmental
processes that create language than in the processes that
we use when we produce or receive language. What
I do think is interesting about the deaf Children,
the home signers is that they really don't have
an experience of receiving the language that is comprehended
because they don't see it. So they are in
a way a production machine, you know, they're expressing
their thoughts, but they don't comprehend those same ideas
from somebody else's language. Um, SO I think they
can bear on questions of production and comprehension, um,
because of that fact, but I haven't really studied
and don't know so much about processing of these
things. Although, you know, comparison comparing has sign languages
are processed compared to spoken languages can do that
can be very helpful.
Mhm. And, uh, do we know if the gestures
that deaf Children use are in any way similar
to the ones used by hearing Children?
Um I've looked at that at the very, very
beginning. Um, HEARING Children also use their gestures very
explicitly. They pointed objects. They create some iconic gestures.
They rarely put two gestures together, hearing Children. Um
But the deaf Children do all the time. So
the deaf Children go much farther with their gestures
than hearing kids. Kids do.
Uh But what do these home signs really look
like? I mean, are they similar to mimicry? Do
they replicate actual movements of an event or something
else?
Yeah, they're not mimicry. Uh Much to my surprise.
Um I mean, they're not a total mind. They're
not, they don't look like Marcel Marceau who's a
wonderful mind. Um You know, it's a to represent
eating an apple, they wouldn't sort of go into
a whole event of picking up the apple and
shining it on their, their shirt and then eating
it. They want to talk about eating an apple,
they'll point at the apple and then do a
little jab toward their mouth. So they break up
these events into small pieces and once having broken
up the events into small pieces, then you gotta
put it back together again. And that's where the
structure comes in.
And in terms of the functions, because earlier in
our conversation, I asked you about the functions of
gestures more generally. Uh WHAT functions do home sign
serve?
Well, home signs serve the function of, of language.
I mean, these kids have no other way of
communicating other than body language and, you know, picking
up acting. Um So this, they, these gestures actually
serve the functions of language. And in fact, for,
for any of the kids, it really serves all
of the functions of language so that um they'll
use it to talk to themselves. So they'll produce
gestures that are conveyed not for you just for
me, the the kid, or they'll use gestures to
point at their other gestures in sort of a
metal linguistic way. You know, kid makes a face
of Donald Duck and my, I'm not watching it.
So he points at his face to indicate. I
said Donald Duck, you know, by pointing at his
own gestures. Um THOSE are pretty sophisticated functions. Um
THEY tell stories with their gestures. Um You know,
they string lots of gestures together and make a
story. Um So there's lots that they, you know,
they comment, they request um they use them for
generics. There's all kinds of ways in which these
gestures fulfill the functions of language.
Uh So in hearing people when many times, for
example, we have internal speech or when we think
out loud to ourselves, uh do home signers or
deaf Children use gestures or their home signs the
same way.
Yeah, I think that's what um, the kids are
doing when they're talking to themselves. So I have
an instance when that child is trying to create
a block tower. Um AND there's a little sheet
that tells you which blocks to put on the
tower. And so he looks at it and does
an arc gesture with his hand. So I help
went and got a, an arc gesture, an arc
block and he just ignored me. That gesture wasn't
for me, it was really for him to go
and find an arc walk. Um So it was
in that case, not intended to communicate to anybody
other than himself.
Mhm. But if home signs serve uh the same
functions as language are home signers ever able to
entirely recreate language or not
or not as I mean, who, who knows? Really?
Uh I doubt it. I think that what home
sign invents home sign includes many of the really
basic aspects of language simple. Um But we have
been able to explore the um the changes that
home sign undergoes when you bring home signers together
into a single place that happened in Nicaragua 40
years ago, years ago, they were brought, deaf people
were brought together for the first time. And what
happened is that they all, then they could see
each other's gestures and produce each other's gestures and
language started to form Nicaraguan sign language. Um And
as new people enter that community, that language is
learned by others and is changed and is changed
and it, and it's still changing. Um You know,
so that's when we're gonna get a full blown
sign language, that's how all sign languages evolve actually
over time. So I don't think home signers can
invent all the properties of language. And I think
it's very interesting to try to distinguish which properties
they can invent and which properties require this transmission
and other other aspects of the world to be
developed.
So, uh another thing that you also talk about
in your book is uh can knowing how the
hands communicate, help us better understand people.
Well, I think it can help us understand what
people are thinking. Um And that's pretty good, you
know, I think there are examples, you know, if
you're a clinician probably, or therapist, probably what you're
doing is making use of what people do with
their hands to make inferences about what they're thinking.
You may be doing it consciously or you may
be doing it unconsciously. But if you're a good
therapist, I think you're using those kinds of um
thoughts that are displayed in the air. Um So
in that sense, we can understand people better
and can it connect to parenting in any way?
I mean, can gestures have some sort of uh,
I don't know, influence in parenting in and our
parenting practices.
Right. Well, I think that it can, in many
ways, uh one way is in how you respond
to your kid. So for example, if the kid
points at a uh a cup and says mommy,
the obviously doesn't think the mommy is, the cup
is a mommy. I mean that, but probably what
the kid is saying is that's mommy's cup. And
so if you as an adult say to the
child afterwards, oh yeah, that's mommy's cup. What you're
doing is translating what the child produced ingestion speech
into speech and you're giving the child an opportunity
a really golden moment in which to learn how
to say that. So that if you attend to
your child's gestures and sort of respond to them
as most parents, I think, do that may improve
their um learning and they may learn that faster
than they would have without the parent responding in
that way?
And so do you think that and also going
back to something that we talked a little bit
about earlier, do you think that your work can
also apply to education? And if so in what
ways?
So I think it i in all of these
ways it's sort of the same and I think
it definitely can and should be applied to education
when Children or when learners are asked to explain
what they know they gesture. Um And those gestures
may reflect ideas that are not coming out of
their mouths. So a good teacher will look at
that and say, oh, ok, I, I maybe not
consciously but they'll realize that the child understands that.
So one of the things you can do is
ask your kids to gesture, you know, sort of
say when you explain that problem at the board,
I want you to gesture while you're doing it
because that may reveal more. You can use it
for diagnosis in another, in another, in a sense,
you know, use it to, to figure out what
the child knows, right. So, and in addition, it
can be used, um the teacher can gesture and
teach the child things through his hands. So there's
both give and take both the the children's gestures.
Um YOU can encourage them to gesture. Um AND
you can watch your own gestures and make sure
you don't mislead them with your gestures.
And do you think? And I guess this is
also important in the context of education. Do you
think that by studying gestures and having a better
understanding of how Children use them and how they
develop over time that we can better identify Children
who have diverged in their development in terms of
communication and perhaps uh potentially helping, helping them get
back on course. So to say,
well, we do have some um I think uh
important analysis of kids, kids who are brain injured.
Ok. So they're, they're brain injured. Um They're all
at the very bottom of the heap in terms
of when their ability to produce words at 18
months. But in fact, the two groups differ very
much. Uh uh SORRY, they differ in how much
gesture they produce. So half of them are also
at the bottom of the heap with respect to
gesture. And some are at the, you know, they're
just like regular kids with respect to their gestures.
OK. Then we fast forward, you know, a year
or two and we look at their word learning
at that point and the kids who were at
the bottom of the heap, remember they were all
at the bottom for word learning to begin with.
But the ones who didn't gesture stayed at the
bottom and the ones who did gesture improved. And
so their, their word learning then uh went into
the normal range. So that's a case where we
can use gesture to diagnose who might need intervention.
It's those kids who are not gesturing and not
speaking or speaking very little who really could use
more intervention than the kids who are uh gesturing
and not speaking.
Mhm And so uh in still in regards to
education and this will probably be my last question
today. Um Can that also apply to students from
less privileged backgrounds? I mean, can we also see
those divergences between uh pre uh uh students who
come from less privileged backgrounds in comparison to the
other students who come from more privileged backgrounds?
Well, I have one of my former students be
Brey Church has done studies of kids who are
um come from uh lower ses families, you know,
low income families and she has found the gesture
is actually even more important for them. So if
you give them gestures in their input in their
instruction, as opposed to, um, you know, kids who
come from higher income families, you can wipe out
the differences or at least get closer to low
le level leveling the playing field if you include
gesture. So without gesture, they look really different. But
with gesture, you begin to equate. So it may
be even more important for kids from lower income
families. And the problem of course is with online
instruction is that gesture isn't always included in it.
And if it's particularly important for kids who, um,
are not there yet, um, that they're getting sort
of a double whammy by not being able to
see the gestures that the teacher produces.
So that's potentially another way by which during the
pandemic, by having online classes, uh, children's learning might
have been impacted maybe,
I mean, I don't think it's the biggest reason.
There are plenty of reason. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. No, sure.
But I think it may have contributed in some
ways. I mean, um, you know, the, the fact
that information is being conveyed by hands and the
kids aren't seeing it, but it works in both
ways, you know, when the teacher is sitting in
her little box and the kid is in his
little box and the teacher can't see the kids
hands. She's not getting insight into what the kid
is saying. And then conversely, if the kid isn't
able to see the teacher's gestures, they're not getting
that, that input from the teacher. So,
yeah, so uh just one more question then uh
because I was almost forgetting about asking you this
specifically. So, uh and what about neurodivergent Children like
uh autistic Children? Do we see differences in terms
of how they use gestures and how the other
um I mean, more uh regular Children use gestures?
Yeah. So um I haven't studied this myself but
I have a student, Jen, a former student, Jan
Iverson who has studied autistic kids and Down syndrome.
Um And other people have studied Williams syndrome kids.
Um AND autistic kids are said to gesture less
than um typically developing Children. Um They certainly produce
fewer of the kinds of gestures that we recognize
as gestures. They may because they do a lot
of non verbal touching and whatever. Maybe some of
those really are gestures and require somebody to really
look hard at them. People have also looked at
how parents use gestures in relation to these kids.
Um And the parents gestures are pretty comparable across
kids. So it's not like the parents are, but
sometimes, you know, the parents are um changing their
gestures in ways that might not be so helpful.
So I think that kind of work is really
very useful to do.
Great. So Doctor Golden Meadow, I think that this
is a good point for us to wrap up
the interview. And the book is again thinking with
your hands, the surprising science behind our gesture, shape
our thoughts. And I'm leaving a link to it
in the description of the interview. And uh just
before we go apart from the book, would you
like to tell people where they can find you
and your work on the internet
um on my website, but I don't remember its
name and you can put it on.
No look, no problem at all. I will look
it up and then look it in the description.
You know, I'm one of those. I don't know
what technology but they can find me, University of
Chicago. That's where I am.
OK? Great. So thank you so much again for
taking the time to come on the show. I
really love the book, the book and I loved
our conversation today. So thank you so much.
Thank you so much for your interest. I really
appreciate it.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by the N Lights
learning and development. Then differently check the website at
N lights.com and also please consider supporting the show
on Patreon or paypal. I would also like to
give a huge thank you to my main patrons
and paypal supporters, Perego Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick
Suno, Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam Castle Matthew
Whitting B no Wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Conners,
Philip Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in
NAI Z Mar Nevs calling in Hobel Governor Mikel
Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger Ken Hall,
her ma J and Lain Jung Y and the
Samuel K Hes Mark Smith J. Tom Hummel s
friends, David Sloan Wilson, Ya des Roman Roach Diego
and Jan Punter Romani Charlotte Bli Nicole Barba, Adam
Hunt, Pavlo Stassi, Nale Me, Gary G. Almansa Zal
Ari and Y Polton John Barboza, Julian Price Edward
Hall, Eden Broner Douglas Fry Franca Lati Gilon Cortez
Solis Scott Zachary ftdw Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul
Giorgio, Luke Loki, Georgio Theophano, Chris Williams and Peter
Wo David Williams Di A Costa Anton Erickson Charles
Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore Larry
Dey Junior, Old Ebon Starry Michael Bailey then Spur
by Robert Grassy Zorn, Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas
Radick Mark Temple, Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris Tory
Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica week in the B
brand Nicholas Carlson Ismael Bensley Man George Katis. Valentin
Steinman, Perlis, Kate Van Goler, Alexander Abert Liam Dan
Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer Urla. Good enough
Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean Nelson, Mike Levin
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers,
these our web, Jim Frank Luca Stina, Tom Vig
and Bernard N Cortes Dixon Bendik, Muller Thomas Trumble
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlman, Negro, Nick Ortiz
and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers, Matthew
Lavender, Si, Adrian Bogdan Knits and Rosie. Thank you
for all.